All right.
So the next re-assessed transform function that will take a look at has to do with increasing or decreasing
the size of a given element.
It's called scale.
So you can see a quick example here.
The syntax is very similar to what we did with translate.
So we have transform colon and then a function that we pass in.
In this case for not doing translate X or Y we're going to work with scale.
And there's also scale x and scale Y which you'll see in a bit but to start this simple line transform
colon scale too is going to double the size of all divs.
So it increases the X and the Y dimensions by 2.
Let's hop over to code Penn and play around a bit.
So I have two divs here or excuse me two paragraphs here.
Both the text Hello and side one with the class transformed.
But it's not transformed yet.
The only difference is the background color at the moment.
So they're both 50 by 50 pixels.
One of them has a teal background color.
The font is white.
Doesn't really matter.
And there's a two pixel border that's there for a reason that we'll see in just a bit.
So transformed the class only has a different background color.
Now we're going to actually apply a C S transform to scale it.
So again the syntax is transform colon and then a function.
Not in caps.
And in this case we'll do scale.
And if I just pass in a single number like that you can see it immediately grows to twice its size.
Now we'll talk a bit about why is being cut off.
Where you know where it's going and how the scale is being applied in just a second.
But I just want to show that you can do things like 10.
Notice that if you can see this everything in this paragraph every aspect of it has been scales including
the border.
It's now ten times larger and the font the text it's a bit hard to see.
It's very hard to see it's basically gone.
It's being cut off but you can see a bit that's been increased.
We can also go the other direction and shrink it.
There we go it's half as large.
Could go very small one or two very very tiny.
But if it's human you can actually see it still there.
The text the border it's all there.
OK.
So that's the very basics of scale where we can apply the scale evenly across the x and y but we can
also do things like this only scale across the x axis so the height remains the same.
Everything in the y axis if you look at it take a look at the border here.
This is the original border dimension on the top and bottom.
But our border on the right and left you have to trust me on the left but on the right that we can see
has doubled in size.
So we're stretching it we're making it twice as long and we could do the same thing for why if you wanted
to.
Now it's twice as tall twice as long across the y axis.
So you can do those individually.
You could also you know we can shrink it and make it half as tall but you can also combine them by just
doing scale and passing into values.
So rather than doing two to double it on the x and y to basically double its size overall we can pass
and a comma here and then a second number let's say 5.
So this will make it twice as long across the scale at two times across the x axis scale up by five
times on the y axis.
So it's five times as tall or we could go the opposite direction and shrink it across the y axis an
elongated double it on the X.
So that's really it to scale on its own.
There's only a scale scale x and scale y that we're concerned with and to a scale you can pass in a
single number like we saw.
Let's go with something big.
How about 7.
That will increase it by sevenfold scale at seven times.
Or we can pass in two numbers like three and five.
So rather than doing scale x and scale y separately.
Now the next thing I want to talk about has to do with where the origin of the transform is happening.
So if we go back to our double double across the x and y.
Notice that it's getting cutoff right.
We don't see the left quarter.
We don't see the left part of the H here.
What's happening is that it's taking the initial origin here which is the middle of this paragraph right
about there and it's scaling it evenly from there.
So it grows outwards to the right to the left up and below top and bottom I guess we can change that.
So what we could do instead is say I want the scale to happen from right here and grow two times this
way and two times that way to the right and down the name of the property we care about is called transform
origin and there's a ton of different ways to use it as you can see here.
So we're not going to go over all of them or even most of them.
I'm just going to point out a couple of things we can do with it.
So if we go back here to our double scaled transforms paragraph if I want to instead change the transform
origin to this top corner here that coordinate is actually 0 0.
So I can transform it again and give it a transform origin 0 0 and what that will do is set the origin
to this point right here.
So that might be slightly different than what you expect.
00 in the C S coordinate system is the top left.
It's not down here.
This is 00 as you can see let me reset it again back to here.
This doesn't move this stays flush right there.
And it scales this way in that way.
So uncommon.
Both of them and there we go it skills.
OK.
So we can play around with that as well.
You know if you wanted to you could give it a coordinate here.
Any coordinate.
But another thing that we can do that's even simpler is just give it a direction like left right.
We could even say Center and that's where it will scale from.
So I could say transform origin is left and what that will do is basically say transform from the left
side but it doesn't specify top or bottom so it's going to keep the center for the y position.
But transform it from the left side for x.
If that makes any sense.
So essentially if I go back and uncomment that initially is transforming from the center out in both
directions from the middle but then by saying transform origin left it's going to take the x component
the X scale and do it from the left side over here.
So it will still move up from the middle and down from the middle but it won't move left and right from
the middle instead it will move from the left side.
So I could also pass in a second value here.
Like bottom and now it's scaling up from the bottom so it's going from the left and from the bottom.
Or I could do left top which is the same as zero comma or no comma is the same as zero zero.
Just like that we get the same result as left top.
So if we change just the right it scales to the left from the right side.
So the origin is here now.
And so it's going that way.
So we could do the same thing just to wrap this up.
If we pass into values that say would double it and the X and we shrink it on y.
Now what I can do set up right top.
Let me just show you what it looks like without changing the origin.
So from the middle right now it's shrinking from the middle and then doubling evenly.
So the left until the right.
Now if I go back and let's change the transform origin to now be from the left we see the entire thing
because that to hear the double is happening from the left this direction but we could also say left
bottom and now the shrink scaling down is happening from the bottom and it's shrinking towards the bottom
because we passed that value that's less than 1.
It's shrinking down.
So if I change just to be 5 it now overtakes everything.
The bottom stays the same the position and it scales up way up here five times.
So let's do three instead.
Now you can see the tech scales like that.
And just to hit this home again the default is going to be Center.
You often do want things to actually scale from the center.
That's a logical way to scale them but if you're worried about things overlapping or if you're trying
to apply something in a particular direction transform origin can help you.
All right.
That's it descale.
Just to recap we have scale on its own with one value scale with two values like this.
And then we also had scale x and scale y along with transform origin.
All right.